.\" Copyright 2011 Arnt Gulbrandsen; BSD-licensed
.TH nodee 8 2011-12-24 cloudname.org "Cloudname documentation"
.SH NAME
nodee - daemon to start and monitor cloudname hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $BINDIR/nodee
[ --port | -P
.I port
]
[ --zookeeper
.I url
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.PP
.B nodee
is an
.BR init (8)-like
daemon to start, manage and stop services running within a Cloudname cluster.
.PP
Once started,
.B nodee
is managed completely using its embedded web server. There is an
HTTP API to start/stop services, and additionally
.B nodee
records some information about the host on which it runs using
.B zookeeper 
so that Cloudname users may know that the host exists and how it can be
used.
.SH OPTIONS
Each option can also be specified in the configuration file and as
environment variables. Environment variables override the configuration
file; command-line options override both.
.PP
The --help flag emits terse help text and the --version flag emits a
version number.
.PP
The --port (-P) flag allows running
.B nodee
on a different port than its default 40. This option is called
.B port
in the configuration file and NODEE_PORT in the environment. (Other
options are similarly named.)
.PP
The --depot flag specifies the an artefact depot, in the format
group=url, for example --depot
bigco=http://artefactory.i.bigco.com/webapp/.
When
.B Nodee
needs to download an artifact, it will append its name to the URL
for the relevant group and expect to find a file there.
.PP
.B Nodee
uses wget or curl to do the actual downloading, so the protocols and
other features supported are those of either wget or curl. Notably,
http://root:pils@internal.google.com will authenticate as root using
password pils on internal.google.com.
.PP
It's possible to specify several depots;
.B nodee
will use all. However, if you specify two depots with the same group
name, only one will be used. As you would expect, the command line
overrides the environment, which in turn overrides the configuration
file.
.B Nodee
tells you what it does, just to be sure.
.PP
The --dir option specifies the base directory
.B nodee
uses for all its work.
.PP
The --artefactdir flag specifies where (relative to the base directory)
.B nodee
stores the artefacts it downloads.
.PP
The --workdir flag specifies where (relative to the base directory)
.B nodee
creates working directories for running services.
.PP
The --zookeeper flag specifies where to locate zookeeper, in the same
format as Zookeeer uses, for instance 192.0.2.8:3000,192.0.2.72:3000.
.SH HTTP API
.B Nodee
serves seven URLs: Three to start/stop/list running services, three to
install/remove/list locally stored artifacts (this is strictly
unnecessary since
.B nodee
demand-loads artifacts), and one to report on the host's status.
.PP
.B POST /service/start
starts a service, based on a JSON object supplied in the HTTP
request body.
.PP
The JSON contents are not yet documented. TBD.
.PP
.BR /service/stop /number
stops the specified service. The number is returned by
/service/list.
.PP
.B /service/list
lists the running services in JSON format.
.PP
The JSON contents are not yet documented. TBD.
.PP
.B /artefact/install
installs an artefact, based on a JSON object supplied in the HTTP
request body.
.PP
The JSON contents are not yet documented. TBD.
.PP
.BR /artefact/remove /name
removes the artefact of the specified name.
.PP
.B /artefact/list
lists the locally stored artefacts as a simple JSON array/list.
.PP
.B /nodee/status
returns a few key numbers describing the host's status.
.PP
The JSON contents are not yet documented (or quite stable). TBD.
.PP
In addition to the seven API calls,
.B nodee
serves a few more URLs using invariant responses. For instance,
/robots.txt tells any passing bots to stay away from the "site". These
are not meant to be used and their exact contents may change.
.PP
Some of these API calls will probably change, so that a subset of the
API becomes RESTful.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
.BR Nodee's
configuration file uses the classic line-oriented format:
.PP
.in +4
port=40
.br
# this is a comment
.br
basedir=/opt/foo
.in -4
.PP
All command-line options (except --config and --help) also exist as
configuration file options.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The return code of
.B nodee
is zero if all goes well, and a non-zero in case of errors.
.PP
All diagnostics are logged via stderr.
.SH BUGS
Well, well. Very likely.
.SH AUTHOR
The Cloudname developers, primarily
Arnt Gulbrandsen <arnt@gulbrandsen.priv.no>
.SH VERSION
This man page covers
.B nodee
version $VERSION, released $DATE,
http://cloudname.org/nodee/$VERSION
.SH SEE ALSO
http://cloudname.org,
https://github.org/arnt/nodee
